---
layout: post
title: Add pages of blog posts in GitHub Pages
---

I started with a regular GitHub theme, but it has nothing to help with writing blog posts or organizing them into pages.

For pagination, the starting point would be the [Jekyll doc on pagination]. Except it has extra steps not needed for github. As [GitHub doc] explains, the `jekyll-paginate` plugin is already enabled and could not even be disabled. So that is not a missing link. What is needed is the following.

#### Essential: /index.html

My theme had /index.md as the main page that used the default layout (from \_layouts/default.html). Pagination would not display no matter what I did. I **had** to rename the /index.md to /index.html for anything to work. Ridiculous, but true.

#### How many blog posts per page?

You have to specify your choice in the \_config.yml file. Add whatever number you like:

```markdown
paginate: 3
show_excerpts: true
future: true
# GitHub pages will publish future posts
```

This is an example that will create a page for every 3 blog posts, will show excerpts (if we code in that choice later) and is set to show the future posts (default is `false` - future posts will only show when that date comes).

#### Show pages of your blog posts 

Now on to the actual instructions to show the pages. I put that in \_layouts/default.html right inside the main section and after the \{\{ content \}\} that displays the contents of the main page (and only on the main page - an `if` statement takes care of that) (/index.html):

<code>
{% if site.paginate %}
</code>






For every post we will display the `post.title` as a heading.

_Optional:_ As the next heading I added the post date. Also I added an estimation on how long of a read that post is, based on word count.

If the `_config.xml` says `show_excerpts: true` then an excerpt (by default that means the first paragraph) of a post will follow.

That is it for the actual list of posts on a page.

#### At the bottom, page navigation

The code above deals with links to previous, next, and back to the main page. It is useful as you browse through the pages of blog post list.

That is all under the `<span class="pagination">` section. First, check if there is such a thing as a previous page and if so, link to it. If not, just show a (grayed out) word for consistency. You could choose to show nothing at all, or some symbol.

Then the Main page link is shown, in the center.

Lastly, the same is done for the next page as for the previous. If one exists on that page.

#### How to define how the pagination links will be shown

Now, let's make the bottom page links pretty. I used a modified version of another theme. Here is an example code in `_sass/<your-main-css-code-file>.scss`.

```
/*  
 * PAGINATION
 */

.pagination {
      overflow: hidden;
      margin-left: 0;
      margin-right: 0;
      font-family: $sans-serif;
      font-size: $base-font-size + 1px;
      color: $header-line-color;
      text-align: center;
}

/* Pagination items can be `span`s or `a`s */
.pagination-item {
      display: block;
      padding: 10px;
}
.pagination-item:first-child {
      margin-bottom: -1px;
}

/* Only provide a hover state for linked pagination items */
a.pagination-item:hover {
      background-color: #f5f5f5;
}

@media (min-width: 100px) {
      .pagination {
            margin: 0 0;
      }
      .pagination-item {
            float: left;
            width: 30%;
      }
      .pagination-item:first-child {
            margin-bottom: 0;
            border-top-left-radius:    $border-radius;
            border-bottom-left-radius: $border-radius;
      }
      .pagination-item:last-child {
            margin-left: -1px;
            border-top-right-radius:    $border-radius;
            border-bottom-right-radius: $border-radius;
      }
}
```

Notice there are a few definitions in the css code above (everything starting with `$`). This allows me to keep a list of variables on top of the file. If I change the variable on top of the whole file, the change propagates throughout. It is great for consistency. It is also great if you want to get into creating light and dark themes for your site: just assign different values for color variables and you have another color theme.

```
$sans-serif: 'Helvetica Neue', 'Helvetica', 'Arial', sans-serif;
$base-font-size: 15px;
$header-line-color: #ccc;
$border-radius: 4px;
```

These are the variables used in the pagination section. Showing here as an example. Well, as a starting point. How would you improve it?

### Resources:

- [Jekyll doc on pagination]
- [GitHub doc]


[Jekyll doc on pagination]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/pagination/
[GitHub doc]: https://docs.github.com/en/pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll/about-github-pages-and-jekyll#plugins
