---
layout: post
title: How else to make my keyboard my own
---

I have been thinking, what are the native system options to safely edit and create new functionality on a Mac keyboard. This led me to creating custom key bindings.

In essence, your computer keeps its shortcuts in binary format in this location:
``` 
/System/Library/Frameworks/AppKit.framework/Resources/StandardKeyBinding.dict
```

Do you want to see what's inside? Issue this command:
```
$ plutil -convert xml1 /System/Library/Frameworks/AppKit.framework/Resources/StandardKeyBinding.dict -o -|pl|grep -v noop:|ruby -pe'$_.gsub!(/[^ -~\n]/){"\\U%04x"%$&.ord}'
```

The outcome may look weird, but let's just look at an example line, for now:
``` 
"^d" = "deleteForward:";
```

Did you know that your keyboard can delete in the forward direction if you press `control` + `d`? That comes from that line above. To be clear, that is a `control` and not a `command (⌘)` key. (Also, by default, the forward delete shortcut is `fn` + `delete`.)

It's a bad idea to mess with that global dictionary file, but we can create a user-specific key dictionary and add new or over-write the default shortcuts.

If you want to do that, your personal file has to be exactly this:
``` 
~/Library/KeyBindings/DefaultKeyBinding.dict
```

Chances are, you do not yet have the directory `KeyBindings` in your Library. Create it first.

My `DefaultKeyBinding.dict` file is simple, I wanted to create more ways to forward delete. So I assigned `F5` to that (an otherwise unoccupied function key as I do not use Dictation). Also, `shift` - `delete` will delete forwards, because, why not. Other combinations are already used by the system:
- `alt` - `delete` deletes the whole word going backwards;
- `command (⌘)` - `delete` deletes from the cursor position to the start of the line.

Here is my example dictionary file, from GitHub:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/verityj/8b6831fb16b473a8b87a976bf7e59b26.js"></script>

The key bindings are housed within `{}`, the rest are comments. I find it useful to explain what the symbols (key modifiers) mean, as well as include a list of key codes. All of those codes are defined by [unicode apple mappings](http://www.unicode.org/Public/MAPPINGS/VENDORS/APPLE/CORPCHAR.TXT).

I added some notes on the programs where I ran into peculiarities with my key bindings. In particular, Xcode and Terminal can be picky. For example, `F5` already had a custom (useless) assignments in both Xcode and Terminal so my keybinding was ignored. Since I removed those custom `F5` functions from both Xcode and Terminal, the shortcut works great.

It would be really neat to specify a left or right option key in these bindings, but it seems to be outside the scope of Apple programming as it is currently [documented](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/EventOverview/TextDefaultsBindings/TextDefaultsBindings.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/20000468).
