---
layout: post
title: Python and Mac notifications
---

Terminal command can pass along an AppleScript command. What if all that is happening inside a Python script?

As a reminder, we run Python scripts in the Terminal command line as
```sh
$ python3 find-command.py
```
What is in my `find-command.py`? Here:
```python
def existing_command(name):
    from shutil import which
    return which(name) is not None

print("Osascript exists:", existing_command("osascript"))

print("Osascript1 exists:", existing_command("osascript1"))

if existing_command("osascript"):
    print("May execute something with osascript.")
    
    from os import popen
    popen("osascript -e 'display notification \"Notification main text here: look!\" with title \"Title: notification works!\" sound name \"Blow\" '")
else:
    print("May not execute anything with osascript.")

if existing_command("osascript1"):
    print("May execute something with osascript1.")
else:
    print("May not execute anything with osascript1.")
```

### Step 1: Define a function `existing_command(name)`

That's the first three (3) lines of the script. Take in a `name` we'll be checking in all the known locations where the executables might be (the user's PATH). In Python, we'll need the `shutil.which` module (introduced in Python 3.3). The function will return a `True` or `False` if the `name` exists or not, respectively.

In this example, we check if there is a command `osascript` that can execute an AppleScript from the command line. The check should return `True`. As an example of a command that does not exist and returns `False`, I added an extraneous number to the command. That name of a program does not exist and will print `May not execute anything with osascript1.`

### Step 2: Have Python execute an AppleScript (notification)

Now that we made sure that `osascript` command is available, we can use the `os` module `popen` function so we import that. It will execute a shell command that tells AppleScript to display a simple notification with a title and the main notification text as well as a system sound. To check what sounds are available, look at the `.aiff` audio files inside `/System/Library/Sounds/` and your user library `~/Library/Sounds/` (mine is empty).

Through popen, Python is executing a shell command
```sh
$ osascript -e 'display notification "Notification main text here: look!" with title "Title: notification works!" sound name "Hero" '
```

You could further modify the notification by also adding a subtitle
``sh
$ osascript -e 'display notification "Notification main text here: look!" with title "Title: notification works!" subtitle "subtitle here" sound name "Hero" '
```

Notification appears and pings with a sound, then disappears. And the script is done.
